Adds big data guide (#11225)
PrefectHQ/prefect: docs/guides/big-data.md

---
description: Tips for using Prefect when dealing with big data.
tags:
    - big data
    - flow configuration
    - parallel execution
    - distributed execution
    - caching
search:
  boost: 2
---

# Big data with Prefect

In this guide you'll learn tips for working with large amounts of data in Prefect.

Big data doesn't have a widely accepted, precise definition.

> For this guide, we're talking about data that's causing you difficulty in terms of time or memory constraints, without you taking steps to optimize your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we'll discuss methods to reduce the processing time or memory utilization of Prefect workflows, without editing your Python code.
```

To speed up your flow runs, you can disable this behavior for a task by wrapping the argument using [`quote`](https://docs.prefect.io/latest/api-ref/prefect/utilities/annotations/#prefect.utilities.annotations.quote).

To demonstrate, let's use a basic example that extracts and transforms some New York taxi data.

```python hl_lines="2 26" title="et_quote.py"
from prefect import task, flow
from prefect.utilities.annotations import quote
import pandas as pd

@task
def extract(url: str):
    """Extract data"""
    df_raw = pd.read_parquet(url)
    print(df_raw.info())
    return df_raw

@task
def transform(df: pd.DataFrame):
    """Basic transformation"""
    df["tip_fraction"] = df["tip_amount"] / df["total_amount"]
    print(df.info())
    return df

@flow(log_prints=True)
def et(url: str):
    """ET pipeline"""
    df_raw = extract(url)
    df = transform(quote(df_raw))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    url = "https://d37ci6vzurychx.cloudfront.net/trip-data/yellow_tripdata_2023-09.parquet"
    et(url)
```

Introspection can take significant time when the object being passed is a large collection, such as dictionary or DataFrame, where each element needs to be visited.

> Note that using `quote` improves performance at the expense of disabling task dependency tracking for the wrapped object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that using `quote` reduces execution time at the expense of disabling task dependency tracking for the wrapped object.
```

### Write task results to cloud storage

By default, the results of task runs are stored in memory in your execution environment.

> This behavior helps make flow runs fast for small data, but can be problematic for large data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behavior makes flow runs fast for small data, but can be problematic for large data.
```

You can save memory by writing results to disk.
In production, you'll generally want to write results to a cloud provider storage such as AWS S3.
Prefect lets you to use a storage block from a Prefect cloud integration library such as [prefect-aws](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-aws/) to save your configuration information.
Learn more about blocks [here](/concepts/blocks/).

Install the relevant library, register the block with the server, and create your storage block.
Then you can reference the block in your flow like this:

```python
...
from prefect_aws.s3 import S3Bucket

my_s3_block = S3Bucket.load("MY_BLOCK_NAME")

...
@task(result_storage=my_s3_block)

```

Now the result of the task will be written to S3, rather than stored in memory.

### Save data to disk within a flow

To save memory and time with big data, you don't need to pass results between tasks at all.

> Instead, you can write and read data to disk within a flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead, you can write and read data to disk directly in your flow code.
```

Prefect has integration libraries for each of the major cloud providers.

> Each library contains blocks with methods that make it convenient to read and write data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each library contains blocks with methods that make it convenient to read and write data to and from cloud object storage.
```

> Each library contains blocks with methods that make it convenient to read and write data.

Reviewer: Why do we mention blocks here? I thought the section above is about persisting data to object storage. This section is about the local disk, right?

Author: The idea I'm hoping to get across here is that you can just read and write data outside of results - just read in your data from (e.g.) S3 in your code using a block method, transform it if needed, write it back out. The moving data guide shows how to do that.

The section above showed how to persist data with results, so just another way to that, but not as useful in some cases e.g. you want to work with multiple files.

If you have ideas for better explaining that, I'm all ears. :)

Reviewer: Ah I see, let me take a stab at that.

The [moving data guide](/guides/moving-data/) has step-by-step examples for each cloud provider.

### Cache task results

> Caching allows you to avoid re-running tasks when rerunning is not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching allows you to avoid re-running tasks when it's not needed.
```

---

> description: Learn tips for using Prefect when you have large amounts of data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Tips for using Prefect when passing large data objects between tasks.
```

Author: In a number of the examples, data isn't passed and in some it is just acted on, so would prefer more general phrasing. I'm open to some other phrasing. Do you think "Tips for using Prefect when dealing with big data?" would be preferable?

Reviewer: Makes sense!

tags:
    - big data
    - flow configuration
    - parallel execution
    - distributed execution
    - caching
search:
  boost: 2
---

# Big data with Prefect

> In this guide you'll learn tips for working with large amounts of data in Prefect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide you'll learn tips for passing large data objects between tasks.
```

Author: See response above.

## Prerequisites

> 1. Big data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Feels odd to have one item in the list

> Big data doesn't have an agreed upon, precise definition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Big data doesn't have an widely accepted, precise definition.
```

> For this guide, we're talking about data that's causing you difficulty in terms of time or memory, without you taking steps to optimize your code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this guide, we're talking about data that's causing you difficulty in terms of time or memory constraints, without you taking steps to optimize your code.
```

## Optimizing your Python code with Prefect for big data

Depending upon your needs, you may want to optimize your Python code for speed, memory, compute, or disk space.

Prefect provides several options that we'll explore in this guide:

1. Remove task introspection with `quote` to save time running your code.

> 1. Write task results to cloud storage such as S3 using a block to save memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Write task results to object storage, such as S3, using a block to save memory.
```

> 1. Save data to disk within a flow rather than using results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Persist data to disk within a flow rather than using results.
```

1. Cache task results to save time and compute.
1. Compress results written to disk to save space.
1. Use a [task runner](/concepts/task-runners/) for parallelizable operations to save time.

### Remove task introspection

> When a task is called from a flow, each argument is introspected by Prefect, by default.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a task is called from a flow, each argument is introspected by Prefect by default.
```

from prefect.utilities.annotations import quote
import pandas as pd

@task
def extract(url: str):
    """Extract data"""
    df_raw = pd.read_parquet(url)
    print(df_raw.info())
    return df_raw

@task
def transform(df: pd.DataFrame):
    """Basic transformation"""
    df["tip_fraction"] = df["tip_amount"] / df["total_amount"]
    print(df.info())
    return df

@flow(log_prints=True)
def et(url: str):
    """ET pipeline"""
    df_raw = extract(url)
    df = transform(quote(df_raw))

if __name__ == "__main__":
    url = "https://d37ci6vzurychx.cloudfront.net/trip-data/yellow_tripdata_2023-09.parquet"
    et(url)
```

Introspection can take significant time when the object being passed is a large collection, such as dictionary or DataFrame, where each element needs to be visited.
Note that using `quote` improves performance at the expense of disabling task dependency tracking for the wrapped object.

### Write task results to cloud storage

By default, the results of task runs are stored in memory in your execution environment.
This behavior helps make flow runs fast for small data, but can be problematic for large data.
You can save memory by writing results to disk.

> In production, you'll generally want to write results to a cloud provider storage such as AWS S3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In production, you'll generally want to write results to a cloud object storage such as AWS S3.
```

Prefect lets you to use a storage block from a Prefect cloud integration library such as [prefect-aws](https://prefecthq.github.io/prefect-aws/) to save your configuration information.
Learn more about blocks [here](/concepts/blocks/).

Install the relevant library, register the block with the server, and create your storage block.
Then you can reference the block in your flow like this:

```python
...
from prefect_aws.s3 import S3Bucket

my_s3_block = S3Bucket.load("MY_BLOCK_NAME")

...
@task(result_storage=my_s3_block)

```

> Now the result of the task will be written to S3, rather than saved in memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now the result of the task will be written to S3, rather than stored in memory.
```

### Save data to disk within a flow

To save memory and time with big data, you don't need to pass results between tasks at all.

> Instead, you can write and read results to disk within a flow.

Reviewer: The way this is written, its not clear how its different from the method above. You may want to avoid using the word "results" in this section or perhaps include an example to disambiguate.

Prefect has integration libraries for each of the major cloud providers.
Each library contains blocks with methods that make it convenient to read and write data.
The [moving data guide](/guides/moving-data/) has step-by-step examples for each cloud provider.

### Cache task results

Caching allows you to avoid re-running tasks when rerunning is not needed.
Caching can save you time and compute.
Note that caching requires task result persistence.

> Caching is discussed in detail in the [tasks concept page](/concepts/tasks.md/#caching), so we won't rehash it here. 🙂

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Caching is discussed in detail in the [tasks concept page](/concepts/tasks.md/#caching).
```

### Compress results written to disk

If you're using Prefect's task result persistence, you can save disk space by compressing the results.
You just need to specify the result type with `compressed/` prefixed like this:

```python
@task(result_serializer="compressed/json")
```

Read about [compressing results with Prefect](/concepts/results/) for more details.

> The downside of compression is that it takes time to compress and decompress the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tradeoff of using compression is that it takes time to compress and decompress the data.
```

### Use a task runner for parallelizable operations

Prefect's task runners allow you to use the Dask and Ray Python libraries to run tasks in parallel and distributed across multiple machines.
This can save you time and compute when operating on large data structures.
See the [guide to working with Dask and Ray Task Runners](/guides/dask-ray-task-runners/) for details.

## Conclusion

> In this guide you learned tips for working with large amounts of data in Prefect.

Reviewer: I don't think this section adds anything> I would just drop it entirely. Alternatively, you could expand it.
